# Azure Review Checklists

When doing Azure design reviews (or any review for that matter), Excel spreadsheets are often the medium of choice. A problem with spreadsheets is that they are not easily made subject to revision control. Additionally, team collaboration with branching, pull requests, reviews and others is difficult at best, impossible in most of the cases.

This repo will showcase the idea of having a markdown version of the checklist, that can be imported into an Excel spreadsheet by means of Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) macros. It leverages code from the VBA module in [https://github.com/VBA-tools/VBA-JSON/](https://github.com/VBA-tools/VBA-JSON/)

The sample spreadsheet in this repo includes two macros (find the source code both in the spreadsheet as well as [here](Sheet1.cls)), which are accessible from buttons in the main spreadsheet:

- `export_json`: it will export the checks as a JSON file (you can find a sample in [checklist.json](checklist.json))
- `import_checklist`: will consume the file generated by the export process

Now you can source-control the JSON file with the checklist items. Changes to the JSON file with the check content can be tracked, while changes to the format of the spreadsheet can be ignored (the spreadsheet is here just as a reference).

Another potential benefit is that you can use the same engine for different checklists. In this repo you find two checklists as example: one for reviewing generic Azure Landing Zones ([lz_checklist.json](lz_checklist.json)), and a second one for verifying Azure Kubernetes Service environments ([aks_checklist.json](aks_checklist.json)). The check categories are also stored in the JSON export.
